#NetworkingSecure Protocols

Normal previous protocols are not secure, because of that hacker can easily intercept the data and can read it. So we use secure protocols to secure the data.
So,Transport Layer Security (TLS) is used to secure the data.
Previously HTTP,POP3,IMAP,SMTP and TELNET protocols are not secure, for the security purpose we use TLS to secure and HTTP becomes HTTPS, POP3 becomes POP3S, IMAP becomes IMAPS, SMTP becomes SMTPS and TELNET becomes SSH.

##TLS(Transport Layer Security)
TLS plays key role play in modern networking. Before  that SSL(Secure Socket Layer) was used but now it is deprecated and TLS is used.
Which is basis of TLS.
It is used in transport layer to secure the data.
DNS becomes DoT(DNS over TLS), HTTP becomes HTTPS(Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure), POP3 becomes POP3S(Post Office Protocol version 3 Secure), IMAP becomes IMAPS(Internet Message Access Protocol Secure), SMTP becomes SMTPS(Simple Mail Transfer Protocol Secure) and TELNET becomes SSH(Secure Shell).

TLS background activity
*Server Administrater creates a Certificate Signing Request(CSR) and sent to Certificate Authority(CA).
*CA verifies the request and creates a Certificate and sent back to the Server Administrater.
*Server Administrater installs the Certificate on the server.
*Now the server is ready to use TLS.

After getting we use to identify the server or client to other. It is validating of signature.
For a host to confirm validity of certificate,they must install the signing Authority.

##HTTPS
HTTP relies on TCP port 80.
HTTPS relies on TLS port 443.

Common steps before client ,server estblishment in HTTP
1.Establishes the TCP handshake with the target server.
2.Communicate using the HTTP Protocol.

Common steps before client ,server estblishment in HTTPS
1.Establishes the TCP handshake with the target server.
2.Establishes the TLS session.
3.Communicate using the HTTPS Protocol.

##SMTPS,POP3S,IMAPS
It is related to mail server.
SMTPS uses TCP port 465.
POP3S uses TCP port 995.
IMAPS uses TCP port 993.
Here also suffix 'S' means Secure.Means TLS is used to secure the data.

##SSH
SSH uses TCP port 22.
Before SSH, TELNET where used for remote login.Because of the security reason SSH is used instead of TELNET.
OpenSSH is a free and open-source implementation of the SSH protocol.

Benefits of SSH
1.Encryption:SSH encrypts the data in transit, preventing eavesdropping and man-in-the-middle attacks.
2.Secure Authentication:SSH provides secure authentication using username and password or public key cryptography.
3.Integrity:SSH ensures the integrity of the data by using cryptographic hashes to detect any tampering or modification during transit.
4.Port Forwarding:SSH allows you to forward ports, enabling you to securely access services on a remote network.
5.Tunneling:SSH allows you to create secure tunnels for tunneling other protocols, such as HTTP, FTP, and VNC.
6.File Transfer:SSH provides secure file transfer using SCP and SFTP protocols.

Syntax
ssh username@hostname

ssh username@hostname -X
-X is required for GUI applications.Which is on unix system.

##SFTP and FTPS
SFTP uses TCP port 22.
FTPS uses TCP port 21.

SFTP is a secure file transfer protocol that uses SSH to encrypt the data in transit.
FTPS is a secure file transfer protocol that uses TLS to encrypt the data in transit.
FTPS is tricky to configure.So people use SFTP instead of FTPS.

Syntax
sftp username@hostname

##VPN(Virtual Private Network)
VPN is used to secure the data in transit.It is used to create a secure tunnel between the client and the server.
VPN uses TLS to secure the data in transit.
Local ISP cannot see the data in transit.

##Classing Notes
3 main barnch to secure network tarnsport
1.TLS
2.SSH
3.VPN


1.What is the protocol name that TLS upgraded and built upon?
Answer: SSL

2.Which type of certificates should not be used to confirm the authenticity of a server?
Answer: salf-signed certificate

1.How many packets did the TLS negotiation and establishment take in the Wireshark HTTPS screenshots above?
Answer: 8

2.What is the number of the packet that contain the GET /login when accessing the website over HTTPS?
Answer: 10

1.If you capture network traffic, in which of the following protocols can you extract login credentials: SMTPS, POP3S, or IMAP?
Answer: IMAP

1.What is the name of the open-source implementation of the SSH protocol?
Answer: OpenSSH

1.Click on the View Site button to access the related site. Please follow the instructions on the site to obtain the flag.
Answer: THM{Protocols_secur3d}

1.What would you use to connect the various company sites so that users at a remote office can access resources located within the main branch?
Answer: VPN

1.One of the packets contains login credentials. What password did the user submit?
Answer: THM{B8WM6P}
